# InstaCaption

InstaCaption is a web application that generates captions for your Instagram photos. It uses deep learning techniques to analyze uploaded images and generate relevant captions automatically.

## Features

- Upload an image and get an autogenerated caption.
- Supports a wide range of image formats.
- Simple and user-friendly interface.

## Getting Started

To get started with InstaCaption, follow these steps:

1. Clone the repository:
   git clone https://github.com/s02singh/SocialMediaCaptioner.git
   
2. Install the required dependencies. Make sure you have Python 3.x and pip installed. Run the following command in your project directory:
   pip install -r requirements.txt

3. Run the Django development server:
   python manage.py runserver
  
4. Open your web browser and go to http://localhost:8000 to access the InstaCaption application.

## Folder Structure
The project repository has the following structure:

- image_caption_generator/: Django project settings and configuration.
- image_caption_generator/caption_generator/: Django app containing the main application logic.- 
- image_caption_generator/static/: Static files such as CSS and JavaScript.
- image_caption_generator/templates/: HTML templates for the web application.
- manage.py: Django project management script.
- requirements.txt: Required Python dependencies.

## Technologies Used
- Python
- Django
- Deep Learning 
-- HuggingFace and OpenAI models

## Contributing
Contributions to InstaCaption are welcome! If you find any issues or have suggestions for improvements, please feel free to submit a pull request.

## License
This project is licensed under the MIT License.

## Acknowledgements
This project was developed as part of a learning experience and was inspired by the field of computer vision and natural language processing.
